The DBMS provides :
a) a security system 
b) an integrity system 
c) a concurrency control system 
d) a recovery control system 
e) a user-accessible catalog

Three Level ANSI-SPARC Architecture :
1. External layer
2. Conceptual layer
3. Internal  layer
From higer level to lower level (1 to 3).If you wanna change the higher level data mode structure, you don't need to change the
lower level.it shows us the feature that the data independence.

The five components of the DBMS environment:
a) hardware :the date will be stored in hardisk,so if you want to manage the data,the hardware should be necessary
b) software :if you want to easily manage the data and use more function, you should develop or use some softwares(including 
application software.system software(operating system.device driver and utilities))
c) Data 
d) Procedures (A fixed, step-by-step sequence of activities or course of action (with definite start and end points) 
that must be followed in the same order to correctly perform a task.)
e) Database access language : without doubt,if you wanna manipulate your database,you must use the database access language.

The main approaches for managing the design of a database application that has multiple user views :
a) centralized approach :First of all, the requirements of each use are merged into a single set of requirements. And then,
we built a data mode based on the single set of requirements.
b) view integration approach : the local data mode will be built with each user's view. And then,every local data mode is merged
into a global data mode.
c) combination of both approaches

The three level of data modeling :
a) Conceptual data model
b) Logical data model
c) physical data model
The difference between the three level:
a) A conceptual data model identifies the highest-level relationships between the different entities. Features of conceptual data model include:
· Includes the important entities and the relationships among them.
· attribute is specified.
· No primary key is specified.
b) A logical data model describes the data in as much detail as possible, without regard to how they will be physical implemented in the database. Features of a logical data model include:
· Includes all entities and relationships among them.
· All attributes for each entity are specified.
· The primary key for each entity is specified.
· Foreign keys (keys identifying the relationship between different entities) are specified.
· Normalization occurs at this level.
The steps for designing the logical data model are as follows:
1. Specify primary keys for all entities.
2. Find the relationships between different entities.
3. Find all attributes for each entity.
4. Resolve many-to-many relationships.
5. Normalization.
c) Physical data model represents how the model will be built in the database. A physical database model shows all table structures, including column name, column data type, column constraints, primary key, foreign key, and relationships between tables. Features of a physical data model include:
Specification all tables and columns.
* Foreign keys are used to identify relationships between tables.
* Denormalization may occur based on user requirements.
* Physical considerations may cause the physical data model to be quite different from the logical data model.
* Physical data model will be different for different RDBMS. For example, data type for a column may be different between Oracle, DB2 etc.
The steps for physical data model design are as follows:
a) Convert entities into tables.
b) Convert relationships into foreign keys.
c) Convert attributes into columns.
d) Modify the physical data model based on physical constraints / requirements.
