For part 2, you may visit <https://github.com/Dos233/DataBase/blob/master/Chapter%202%20part%202>


In this chapter, we will learn:
1.How to use entity-Relationship(ER) modeling in database design.
2.Basic concepts associated with ER model
3.Diagramatic technique for displaying ER model using unified modeling language(UML)
4.How to identify and resolve problems with ER model called connection traps
5.How to build an ER model from a requirements specification

Defination of Entity Relationship model is a set of concepts and graphical symbols that can
create conceptual schemas.(ER model forms the basis of an ER diagram)

ER mode has(Conceptual mode) three main components:
a) Entity types : include entity occurence/instance(Uniquely identifiable object of an entity type)
b) Relation types ：cardinality and participation
d) Attributes: include simple attribute(e.g.salary), composite attribute(e.g.address that subdivided into street,city and so on)
singled-valued(unique value e.g.matric,IC No) attribute, multi-valued(e.g.Branch entity may have more than one telephone attribute) attribute
and Derived attribute(Represents a value that is derivable from value of a related attribute,or set of attribute,no necessarily in the same
entity type(e.g.duration is calculated from start to finish attributes))
a):
Strong entity type:
characteristic: each entity occurrence is uniquely identifiable using the primary key attribute.
Weak entity type:
characteristic: each entity occurrence cannot be uniquely identified using only the attributes associated with that entity types.


degree of relationship:
Number of participanting entity in the relationship

Relaitonship of degree:
has two :binary relaitonship 
has three : ternary relationship 
has four : quaternary
Recursive relationship:Relationship type where same entity type participates more than once in different roles.
(e.g.Person is Married to Person, Employee Manages Employee and Student rooms- with student



Cadidate key:Minimal set of attributes that uniquely identifies each occurrence of an entity type
(e.g. branchNo attribute is the candidate key for the Branch entity and has the distinct value for each branch entity occurrence).
(Cadidate key cannot contain a null value.)
Primary key:candidate key selected to uniquely identify each occurrence of an entity type(e.g.staffNo)
alternate key:Candidate key that is not selected as primary key known as alternate key.
Composite key:A candidate key that consists of two or more attributes(e.g.Advertisment entity has attributes of propertyNo
newspaperName,dateAdvert and cost)

superclass/supertype: An entity type that includes one or more distinct subclass
subclass/subtype: A distinct subgrouping of occurences of an entity type.
(if two of more objects have different attribute, just make it split to become different subclass)

Main type of constraints on relationships is called multiplicity.
Multiplicity - number (or range) of possible occurrences of an entity type that may relate to a single occurrence
of an associated entity type through a particular relationship. 
Multiplicity for Binary relationship:
one-to-one (1:1), one-to-many(1:*), many-to-many(*:*)


